Added custom builder Gitea example (#238)
epinio/docs: docs/howtos/custom_builder_go.md

---
sidebar_label: "Deploy Gitea with a custom builder image"
sidebar_position: 14
title: ""
---

# Deploy Gitea with a custom builder image

This How To will show you how to deploy Gitea with Epinio and a custom builder.

> [Gitea](https://github.com/go-gitea/gitea) is a self-hosted Git service. It's written in Go and Node.js.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Gitea](https://github.com/go-gitea/gitea) is a self-hosted Git service. It is written in Go and Node.js.
```

At the time of writing the Paketo Go buildpack doesn't support Node.js asset compilation (see [issue #671](https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/go/issues/671)), so we need to create a custom builder.

This builder will just check the needed Go and Node dependencies, and execute the `make` command to build both the frontend and the backend.

The code used during this guide is available in the [example-builder-gitea](https://github.com/epinio/example-builder-gitea) repository.

## Basic Concepts and prerequisites

> Before starting it's useful to know some basic concepts around Buildpacks, and have some tools already installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before starting it is useful to know some basic concepts around Buildpacks, and have some tools already installed.
```

You can find in the Buildpack documentation what [stacks](https://buildpacks.io/docs/concepts/components/stack/), [builders](https://buildpacks.io/docs/concepts/components/builder/), and [buildpacks](https://buildpacks.io/docs/concepts/components/buildpack/) are. You should also have [`pack`](https://buildpacks.io/docs/tools/pack/) installed, along with `docker` and `skopeo` (to manage OCI artifacts).

## Create the stack

Unfortunately we were not able to reuse the [Paketo Full Stack](https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/bionic-full-stack) because of a missing dependency in the `run` image. To make it simpler we just [forked](https://github.com/epinio/bionic-full-stack) this stack and added `git` to the run packages (see [408e949](https://github.com/epinio/bionic-full-stack/commit/408e949558a437c99858ac7bb99a8b78e78935e8)).

> Note:  
> We had to fork and/or reuse the same stack ID in order to reuse some Paketo buildpacks, that are going to work only with these stacks (see https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/node-engine/blob/main/buildpack.toml#L29).

### Build the stack and publish the image

To build the stack:

```

> ./stacks/bionic-full-stack/scripts/create.sh

Reviewer: Should mention that we are in the main directory of the checkout of the `example-builder-repository` (Well, I am assuming here that this is the working directory.

Author: I've added a couple of commands that we were showing the cloning and `cd` into the example repository. I guess it should be enough!

```

and defining the launch process in the `launch.toml` file

```bash
cat >> "${layers_dir}/launch.toml" <<EOL
[[processes]]
type = "web"
command = "./gitea"
default = true
EOL
```

## Create and publish the builder

The `builder.toml` file contains the buildpacks references and their execution order/groups.

We are referencing our `make` buildpack locally

```toml
[[buildpacks]]
id = "make"
version = "0.0.1"
uri = "../../buildpacks/make"
```

and we are also using the Paketo `node-engine` and `go-dist` buildpacks

```toml
[[buildpacks]]
uri = "docker://gcr.io/paketo-buildpacks/node-engine:1.3.0"
version = "1.3.0"

[[buildpacks]]
uri = "docker://gcr.io/paketo-buildpacks/go-dist:2.3.0"
version = "2.3.0"
```

These buildpacks will provide the Node.js and Go dependencies

- https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/node-engine
- https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/go-dist

We can finally create the builder image with `pack`

```
pack builder create ghcr.io/enrichman/gitea-builder:0.1.0 --config builders/gitea-builder/builder.toml
```

and push it to a public registry

```
docker push ghcr.io/enrichman/gitea-builder:0.1.0

> ```

Reviewer: This seems to ne incomplete. The promise of `This How To will show you how to deploy Gitea with Epinio and a custom builder.` does not seem to be fulfilled, as Gitea is not deployed at all. At the stopping point we only have the custom builder.

Author: That's fair enough. Added a more complete full example, with more commands showing then how to deploy gitea, and also how to bind a mysql db!
